# Path-Planning-Project
Self-Driving Car Engineer Nanodegree Program

### Path Generation Overview

The paths in this project are represented by a series of waypoints, each of which is reached in .02 seconds. This means the path encodes both the cars desired speed aswell as location. Each iteration we generate a new path and pass it to the simulator. The paths must be smooth so our new path cannot be too different from our old path. Our paths will be generated as cubic splines generated from a series of anchor points. 

#### Build a path
To start:

If we have no old path: generate one using the car's current position and its calculated (theoretical) prior position. Use these two points as anchor points. 

Otherwise:

Use the last two points of the previous path as anchor points. 

The logic here is that we will be adding a new spline to the back of this path and we want to smoothly extend the prior one.

The rest of the anchor points are generated by adding (in the Frenet frame) future s values coupled with d values of the target lane we wish the car to be in.

Once we have the anchor points, we transform them into car-like coordinates so that the x axis points in the direction the car would point at the end of the prior path and so that the origin is centered at the start of the new path's contributions. We then construct a spline.

We can then make our new path as follows:

Use all the not yet visited points of the prior path, and then add some points from the spline at the appropriate x values (in car space). The spacing of the new points determines our speed so the spacing in car-x used for the points is taken so that the delta-x corresonds to the right speed. 

Afterward we just transform these points to map space and grab a drink: the easy part is done.

#### But which lane and what speed? do we brake?

To select the right path we can generates many different paths and select the one that best minimizes some cost function.

The cost functions I used included:

1. A penalty for going over acceleration, velocity, or jerk thresholds.
2. A penalty for changing lanes, cause why change if you dont have to?
3. A penalty proportional to how far away fromt the speed limit the car would travel.
4. A penalty for not driving in the center lane (as it might passing easier if we can go left OR right. I tried driving in the left lane but the other cars do not follow a slow/fast lane paradigme)
5. A penalty for running into another car.

The collision penalty worked as follows.

1. Assume each other car will travel in their current direction for some short time frame; generate a future path for that car.
2. Check if that path collides with the our car's path. (In reality I cheated here and just calculated the minimum distance between path points as a simple proxy)
3. Create a penalty in proportion to the squared distance between the paths, apply it in the "target lane" for the new car path.

Overall the results are okay, there are still situations which are hard to reproduce, where the car ends up colliding because all the paths are bad. My hope was that if all the paths are bad the cost functions would say "all the paths are bad, but if you slow down, that one is less bad". 


 
#### The map of the highway is in data/highway_map.txt
Each waypoint in the list contains  [x,y,s,dx,dy] values. x and y are the waypoint's map coordinate position, the s value is the distance along the road to get to that waypoint in meters, the dx and dy values define the unit normal vector pointing outward of the highway loop.

The highway's waypoints loop around so the frenet s value, distance along the road, goes from 0 to 6945.554.

## Basic Build Instructions

1. Clone this repo.
2. Make a build directory: `mkdir build && cd build`
3. Compile: `cmake .. && make`
4. Run it: `./path_planning`.

Here is the data provided from the Simulator to the C++ Program

#### Main car's localization Data (No Noise)

["x"] The car's x position in map coordinates

["y"] The car's y position in map coordinates

["s"] The car's s position in frenet coordinates

["d"] The car's d position in frenet coordinates

["yaw"] The car's yaw angle in the map

["speed"] The car's speed in MPH

#### Previous path data given to the Planner

//Note: Return the previous list but with processed points removed, can be a nice tool to show how far along
the path has processed since last time. 

["previous_path_x"] The previous list of x points previously given to the simulator

["previous_path_y"] The previous list of y points previously given to the simulator

#### Previous path's end s and d values 

["end_path_s"] The previous list's last point's frenet s value

["end_path_d"] The previous list's last point's frenet d value

#### Sensor Fusion Data, a list of all other car's attributes on the same side of the road. (No Noise)

["sensor_fusion"] A 2d vector of cars and then that car's [car's unique ID, car's x position in map coordinates, car's y position in map coordinates, car's x velocity in m/s, car's y velocity in m/s, car's s position in frenet coordinates, car's d position in frenet coordinates. 

## Details

1. The car uses a perfect controller and will visit every (x,y) point it recieves in the list every .02 seconds. The units for the (x,y) points are in meters and the spacing of the points determines the speed of the car. The vector going from a point to the next point in the list dictates the angle of the car. Acceleration both in the tangential and normal directions is measured along with the jerk, the rate of change of total Acceleration. The (x,y) point paths that the planner recieves should not have a total acceleration that goes over 10 m/s^2, also the jerk should not go over 50 m/s^3. (NOTE: As this is BETA, these requirements might change. Also currently jerk is over a .02 second interval, it would probably be better to average total acceleration over 1 second and measure jerk from that.

2. There will be some latency between the simulator running and the path planner returning a path, with optimized code usually its not very long maybe just 1-3 time steps. During this delay the simulator will continue using points that it was last given, because of this its a good idea to store the last points you have used so you can have a smooth transition. previous_path_x, and previous_path_y can be helpful for this transition since they show the last points given to the simulator controller with the processed points already removed. You would either return a path that extends this previous path or make sure to create a new path that has a smooth transition with this last path.

## Tips

A really helpful resource for doing this project and creating smooth trajectories was using http://kluge.in-chemnitz.de/opensource/spline/, the spline function is in a single hearder file is really easy to use.

---

## Dependencies

* cmake >= 3.5
 * All OSes: [click here for installation instructions](https://cmake.org/install/)
* make >= 4.1
  * Linux: make is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: [install Xcode command line tools to get make](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: [Click here for installation instructions](http://gnuwin32.sourceforge.net/packages/make.htm)
* gcc/g++ >= 5.4
  * Linux: gcc / g++ is installed by default on most Linux distros
  * Mac: same deal as make - [install Xcode command line tools]((https://developer.apple.com/xcode/features/)
  * Windows: recommend using [MinGW](http://www.mingw.org/)
* [uWebSockets](https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets)
  * Run either `install-mac.sh` or `install-ubuntu.sh`.
  * If you install from source, checkout to commit `e94b6e1`, i.e.
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/uWebSockets/uWebSockets 
    cd uWebSockets
    git checkout e94b6e1
    ```

